In today's video, we will compare
hdfcfund.com which was started in
2000-2001. If we talk about II Products, then
their date of registration is also in 2000, that is,
24 November 2000 and their date of
operation is also in 2000-2001. If we
talk about these two insurance
companies, then these are one of the top four companies
which have been doing business since 2000-2001, that is,
when private life insurance companies came
into business. So,
if we talk about stability, then
these companies have been the most stable,
these are the oldest companies because they have been doing
business in life insurance for 24 years.
Next, if we talk about
claim settlement ratio, which is a very
important parameter and whenever you go to
buy an insurance policy, a
claim settlement ratio is always seen.
I have given the claim settlement ratio of the last three years
here and after that
I will also share with you the average of what comes out. If we talk about
HDFC.sec product, then
their claim settlement ratio was a little low
this year which was 95.2%. If we talk about last year then it was
97.8 and before that it was 97.9 and if we
talk about overall then
their average claim settlement
ratio comes out to be approximately 97. And
here also I have taken a comparison of 3 years
and along with that we will also calculate the average and
see how much amount settlement ratio is
coming and here you are going to get a very interesting
aspect. If we
talk about IDFC Life, here last year
they had settled an amount of 96.5
but if we look at the 2 years before that then it was
89.3% and 80%, they had settled only this much amount.
If we look at the average then the average comes out to be 88.5 in the
last 3 years. On the other hand, if we talk about IDFC Life then last year they had settled an amount of 96.5%.
Talking about ICICI, there
is a slight improvement here
at 91.1, but before that, they had achieved amount settlement ratio of 95.4% and 89.2.
Keep in mind that these were the years when Covid was
going on and the ratios at that time were
quite bad. If we talk about average, then the
last 3 years average of ICC Potential (
hdfcfund.com)
is more than that of IC Providential. Now both these banks also operate their own,
plus they also have loan departments,
so businesses come to them from multiple avenues
and that is why if you
look at the overall, when we compare all the companies, then
HDFC and ICICI are one of the
top companies which get new business.
Next, we talk about the
number of complaints here. See, we
want to have such an association with a company
where when we need a claim, that is, if
our nominee needs a claim, then the claim should
come to them without any problem. So, if we
talk about complaints  If we look at it, then in the last 3 years, there have been
approximately 3 to 3500 complaints
in HDFC Life and if we
talk about ICICI Product Shall, then here too there have been
approximately 3500 complaints, out of which
how many claims have been resolved,
when I saw their parameters,
they had resolved around 9899 claim plates, so
we do not have
much problem there, yes
if we see the volume of complaints, then as per the
number of policies issued by ICC Prosil, its
volume is more as compared to what is being
received, you can say that
it has been built within the complaints,
both the covers will be available, let me
explain with an example that you have taken a
total cover of ₹1 crore in life and critical illness and initially your
life insurance cover is at 80
and the critical illness cover is at 20, that is,
if  If a critical illness is detected,
you will receive an amount of Rs 20 lakh immediately, that is, the
sum of Rs 20 lakh will be
received for these shorts, and the coverage of Rs 80 lakh will
continue during the
term of that policy. If the
shorts die within the policy duration,
then this amount of Rs 80 lakh will be received. Now,
if we talk about the Income Plus plan, then a
slightly different option is
given here. They have stated here
that the coverage of life insurance will be
applicable for the entire term, and the policy
term is also different here.
If we talk about
how the amount is received here, then here they get a lump sum
maturity, of course, whenever
their plan ends, and after that, they
also get a regular income starting from 60. So,
this plan can
also become a source of regular income for you if
you take this option. Next, if
we talk about ICC potential, then here
You get four different benefit options
and it is very easy to understand them.
See, death benefit is common in all four, that is,
if there is death of these short, then of course
you will get death benefit.
You will also get benefit here on terminal loss being detected. So
this is also a
common option here in all four. Waiver of
premium on permanent disability is also a common option in all four, that is, even if
you die in these three conditions,
you will get benefit. If there is
terminal loss, then you will
get benefit. If there is permanent disability, then
your future wave premium will be waived
off. And the difference comes in our fourth
parameter, in Life Plus, you
get coverage of Accidental Death Benefit.
Actually, this is an optional rider, but the
company has done such that if you
take it, they have named it Life Plus.
So you
can opt for Accidental Death Benefit Rider here
and this will become your plan of Life Plus.
If you opt for Accidental Death  Instead of benefit, we
take an accelerated critical illness benefit. Accelerated critical illness
benefit means that if a critical illness is
detected, then in that case you will get an
accelerated amount, as I had
discussed in the previous plan also.
hdfcfund.com. Here the waiver of premium is
only on the critical illness,
whereas in the
ICC product, there is a
waiver of premium on both the critical illness liabilities.
Yes, you will have to take this Age An Additional Rider,
but we have
more options in the IC product here. If we
talk about HDFC Life Terminal Illness, then here the terminal illness
benefit is not available in ADAC Life,
but it is available in IC product. There is a
lot of difference between terminal illness and terminal illness
and many people do not
know this difference. Lastly, if we talk about accidental death
benefit, then it is there,
but you have to take this Age An Additional Rider, it is
not inbuilt in the policy. Let's
talk next.  Zero Cost Option:
Zero cost option is a
very important option available to us today. If
after a particular time you feel
that you do not want to continue with this plan
and you want to get back all the premiums you have paid,
I am not talking about return of premium,
here I am talking about zero cost
option. So, after a particular
time, if you continue with that plan,
you
can withdraw all the premiums from there. There is
no zero cost option in ADSC Life. There is a zero cost option in ICI
Protection. Yes,
some terms and conditions are applicable. For example,
in IC Protection, if you take a policy of 35 years, that is, if you
take a policy term,
then also the zero cost option will be
available to you, otherwise it is not available.
Talking about total permanent disability, it
is inbuilt in HDSC Life, whereas the
writer of total permanent disability is not available in ICC Protection, that is, it is
not inbuilt in that policy. Lastly, let us talk about increasing life
cover.  So, increasing life cover
is not available in both the policies, that is, if
you want to increase your cover at any stage of life
or if you want that if I have got a
cover of Rs. 1 crore today, it should increase to Rs. 2
crore in future years, then this
option is also not available in both the plans. In
which plan
is it available, you
can watch that video by clicking on the i button above. Talking about
critical illness, as I told you that
critical illness cover is available in both these plans in
different ways, but
hdfcfund.com is good, so you
can keep this thing in mind as well. Here,
HDFC Life has 36 critical illnesses, which
is a better option compared to ICICI Prudential.
If we talk about top up, then
you cannot do top up in both the policies, that is,
again, if you have taken a cover of Rs. 1 crore, can
you increase it in future? Let's say you were
currently
single when  After you took this plan,
you got married, your
responsibilities increased or you had
children or you took another home loan or
something else, so can
you increase your plan on any life event, there are
options for both of these,
you do not have this option in both the plans.
Talking about the sample premium,
we will also talk about critical insurance of HDFC 0000050 lakh, so here if we
take cover of critical insurance then it is
₹2500000 and here how much is the critical insurance
cover, ₹ lakh critical insurance cover is income
plus option, we had talked about this here that
you will start getting regular income after 60 years, there
is a little variation here, actually the amount of ₹366
seems to be very high, but
you have to pay this premium for only 10 years and your
cover is policy cover, it is available for 70 years
Actually, it is applicable till the age of 70 years
or in other words,
it is applicable till the policy term of 40 years, which also becomes
a very good
option, but I always recommend that
you definitely take this option and along with it,
if the cover of critical health is not applicable to you from anywhere else, then
you must definitely avail that as well.
If we talk about IIC
potential, as I told you,
we have four different options. There is Life
Option where your pure life is covered, there
is Life Plus Option where you are getting
accidental death benefit along with life cover,
under Life Plus Health you are getting
critical illness along with life cover
and in Online One you are
getting all the options and the premium here
is 1084 only for life cover. Again, I have taken a
30 year old male, healthy non-
smoker, life cover of ₹1 crore,
ADB of ₹1 lakh and we have taken critical illness of ₹1 lakh  If you have taken a plan and
add accidental death benefit, you have to pay
₹1,371 per month
and for critical benefit, if you
take only critical benefit and not accidental death benefit, then it
costs ₹414 and if you take everything, then you have to
pay ₹701. The sooner you
take these plans, that is, the younger you are, if you
take this plan, then you will have a lot of
benefits. The first benefit is that
you will easily get term insurance.
Look, firstly, your intention is to
take term insurance, secondly, is the company also
ready to give you term insurance?
If any of your conditions are different, for
example, if you are overweight or if you
smoke or your health
parameters are a little different, then you will face a
lot of difficulty in taking a term plan.
Therefore, you should take that term plan as soon as possible
because
once you take this premium, then this premium gets locked for your entire life.
Unlike health insurance, this premium does
not increase.  I have compared the
term plans of 24 different companies on various parameters,
which you
can see by clicking in front. If this video has
helped you in any way, then do
not forget to subscribe to my channel and
like and share this video with your friends
and family. Tell me in the comment section which insurance
company's term plan you have thought of buying. We will
meet soon
with another video. Till then keep saving and
earning because every penny matters.